# Example Exam
- ### Question 1: Query Languages (30 points)
	- Explain in your own words the meaning of relational-completeness
	  
	  Consider the game of life program. (**See lab7: 1 for details**, on the exam we will of course write-out the entire program specification**)**
- Give a while program expressing the Game of life. Or explain why such a program cannot exist using techniques seen in the course.
	- SOLUTION: **lab7: 1 (2)**
- Give a CALC+mu program expressing the Game of life. Or explain why 
  such a program cannot exist using techniques seen in the course.
	- SOLUTION: **lab7: 1 (3)**
- Give an example of a query that is expressible in stratified Datalog but not in positive Datalog. Motivate your answer.
	- SOLUTION**: **see** lectures 5 and 8.**
- ## Question 2: Query Optimization and Processing (30 points)
- Explain what dangling tuples are and why they are important in the context of join processing.
  
  Given some CQs q1 q2 q3 q4 *<put some query expressions here>*. Answer the next questions for all these queries:
- Is the query acyclic? Motivate your answer
- Is the query minimal? Motivate your answer and if the answer is no also give a minimal equivalent query.
- Compute the maximal number of outputs for the query, taking m as cardinality for every involved relation.
- Apply the Yannakakis algorithm or explain why it cannot be applied.
- ### Question 3: Dependencies and Data integration (30 points)
- Explain in your own words why certain answer semantics is common in data integration. 
  
  Given some source and target schema as well as a set of mappings **M ***<put some schemas and mappings here>*.
- Give an example of a solution for the data exchange problem on **M** that is universal and one that is not universal.
- Compute a canonical solution for the data exchange problem on **M**
  
  Given a set of dependencies Σ and a dependency σ
- Show that σ is implied by Σ using techniques seen in the course, or 
  explain why the considered techniques are not sufficient to answer the 
  above question.
  
  **Question 4: Different Subjects (30 points)**
- A couple of multiple choice questions spanning the theory of the 
  course. No guessing correction (correct answer = full point; wrong or no
  answer = 0 points)